Chapter 2

Rei yawned, rubbing her eyes. It was dawn, already, by the wick of the candle that hung in the lantern above her. There were, she was reminded again, no windows in the library. She looked up, bleary-eyed, to see if anyone was around her. You would think that it wouldn't take forever to write a proclamation, but the exactness of the script was important. That was what King Romen wanted, and that was what he got.

He was nitpicky like that, she thought. She had never really been in his presence except from afar, when he had first visited the scribes-in-training on their day of orientation. Red-haired, green-eyed, like Alexander. Those of royal blood looked the same. It was rumored that Alexander was a distant cousin of the Crown Prince. She wondered at that, for Alexander was soft-spoken and did not remind her of royalty. He was far too nervous to be commanding.

"Words are power," the King had intoned, looking over the scribes-in-training. They were children, really, in comparison to the bearded elder that was the King. Through his fiery red beard ran streaks of silver, and crow's feet streaked across the corners of his eyes. Old, thought Rei. The King was getting old, and the Crown Prince was almost of age. It was only a matter of time before they would turn over the kingdom of Welles.

"Words are power," intoned the scribes-in-training.

"Yes, yes," the King had murmured, before turning to an attendant. "Are there any...?" he had seemed to say. Rei watched intently, attempting to read his lips, though she was new to the Wellesian language and its sometimes lilting, sometimes staccato flow. She saw the attendant shake her head, and the King seemed to clutch his scepter tighter. Any what? Rei had wondered.

The year saw a cohort of thirty scribes-in-training, one of whom was Rei. There were very few Han-featured girls and boys, only three. The others were Wellesian, though some were from Sidania and Elloria to the east. It was common for students from faraway kingdoms to scribe in Welles for a few years, though there were far more reputable positions in other kingdoms. It was not so easy to enter other kingdoms, however, and Welles was known to be open to students of any status--poor or rich, so long as you had a good hand and sharp mind.

Rei had stood at attention, next to another girl from Han--a secret attendant of hers--and a boy with golden-hair who was tall as the King. The King strode, row by row, examining the scribes-in-training. He stopped in front of the boy, placing a heavily jeweled hang on the boy's shoulder. "Charles," he said.

The boy drew in a breath. "My king," he said, making as to kneel. The King shook his head, and Charles stood strong, eye to eye with the King.

"How is your father?"

"Very well," Charles said, with a smile. "Elloria is well. Mother sends her best."

Was everyone a son or daughter of someone or another? Rei wondered, eyeing Charles from the side.

"Tuck in your shirt here," said the King, gesturing at Charles' unkempt outfit. "And do pay attention to the details."

"Yes, my King," Charles stammered.

After that, Rei hadn't seen the King again, except from afar in the audiences he kept with his subjects on the Day of the Moon. Rei had been assigned to the Ministry of Internalities, and dutifully, she had been working with Alexander to write proclamations for the King's subjects. Taxes, weddings, obituaries, road closures, and nothing of note.

Welles, Rei thought with sorrow, was a peaceful kingdom. She wished, at the least, that she belonged to the Ministry of Externalities, or the Ministry of Technology, instead of the dreary work she did with Internalities. Communications with other kingdoms had to be more interesting than internal affairs of state.

She was here to learn matters of state, and yet here she was, in the capital of Welles, doing nothing much at all, except for improving her Wellesian and her script.

Rei glanced around her. The library was full of shelves of leather-bound binders. This was only one of many small libraries where the scribes worked, but the Ministry of Internalities had the smallest, darkest corner in the castle. Grey, weathered stone made up the floor and walls, and a few lanterns hung from sconces, the glass panes smudged from a century of smoke and midnight oil. Rei wondered if any of her ancestors had come here, to scribe, unknown and unseen, like her. She smiled to herself, packed her things, and wrapped the proclamations carefully in between a leather cover.

Five hundred, carefully copied proclamations.

It wasn't easy work, as menial as it was. Focus was essential. Words, swapped, could be a disaster. Normally, there would be room for error in the script itself, but the Master of Scribes, like the King, was particular in what was acceptable.

She hoisted her leather satchel over her scribe's robes, unlatched the door, and made her way towards Windstone Library, where the Master of Scribes did his work.

Her sandaled feet echoed in the halls, early dawn light streaming in through the windows. A few birds sang, and she looked out the window to see that the servants were awake and bustling to and fro in the courtyards.

As she walked, she wondered what her father would be doing right now--perhaps he would be up already, preparing his tea and going over letters from the realm.

Rei stopped in her tracks. She had reached the Master of Scribe's doors. Oak, engraved with the script, "Words are power."

Rei considered the inscription--the Wellesian words. Words are power, but arms were what won them this land, she thought. When they laid down their arms, they turned to words: words of peace, words of governance, words that soothed the subjects of Welles. Words were power, now, but what of one hundred years ago? She shook her head, pulling the heavy handle of the door to Windstone.

Windstone Library, the library of the Master of Scribes, a modern marvel of Welles--a layered labyrinth with shelves upon shelves of books. Rei always loved to stop by and submit her work, even if the Master of Scribes often told her to do it all over again. He was a crotchety old man, but he had a skilled eye, and she learned quickly not to cut any corners.

The ceilings were high and gilded with gold and sea-shell, and the floor-length windows let in the early morning. Dust motes swirled in the beams of dawnlight, and the shelves were made of the white wood of the Birken tree, which grew in Welles and Sidania. There were no such trees in Han, and she loved to see the white. A staircase stood in the middle of the room, spiraling above and below to deeper levels of the library.

Rei inhaled, breathing in the earthy smell of Birken and parchment. She supposed that Welles, although unremarkable in every other aspect, possessed a treasure here in the Windstone Library. A wealthy donor had gifted it to the late King, fifty years ago. She stepped through the aisles of books, fingers lightly touching the leather spines of countless books, selecting one at random. The Chronicles of Machina, read its title. She flipped through a few pages, though she did not understand its older script, and was bored enough to put it away.

The Master of Scribes was not in his office, or at least, there was no light on in the back. Perhaps he had gone to another layer of the library. Rei slipped the binder of proclamations onto his desk, hoping for the best. If he required changes, she would make them, but it would be impossible to deliver to the realm. With any luck, he would ship them out, mistakes or not.

She slipped out of Windstone, shutting the heavy door behind her, and glanced out the window of the hall. There, in the courtyard, were golden and white blossoms, a court of green, and white marble benches for those who enjoyed the fresh air. It looked like the court had awoken.

Rei cracked open the window, peering out to see who was there. The air trickled in, and she leaned into the freshness, the green, and the crispness of the autumn. It was turning, from summer to autumn, and you could feel as the lushness of life began to let go and fall away to a dry stillness.

"My prince, you can't be serious," said a deep voice.

Oh, Rei thought. A prince. Was it the Crown Prince, or a younger prince? She leaned out the window, though she could not spot anyone. They must have been directly below her, out of sight.

"I do as I like, Sebastian," he said.

"

Yes."


"Rei," a voice said from behind.

Rei did not bat an eye. "Charles," she said. "What is it?"

Charles, a fellow scribe-in-training, shuffled his sandaled feet, running to her. She did not like the look in his eyes.

"Rei, I have something to ask you..."

"Spit it out. I'm on the way to the Head Scribe." Rei made as if to turn to open the oak door.

"I need your help copying 100 more communications."

"What," she said, whirling around, leather satchel thumping into Charles' chest. She hoped the weight of 500 proclamations hurt. "You can't be serious. What were you DOING all night last night?"

"I don't know," he said, sheepishly. "It's just that you know I'm not as quick as you, and I began to lose track of the time, and I... I fell asleep."

"Give me that," she said. "You owe me."

She grabbed the thin leather binder that he offered up to her, lamely, beseechingly.

"I wanted to get to the good part..." she muttered, glancing out the window. There was something she could learn here. Keep your eyes and ears open, her father had said. The key to learning, is listening. You do not need to talk, or participate, or do anything.

Windstone Library, the library of the Master of Scribes, was a marvel of Welles--a layered labyrinth with shelves upon shelves of books. Rei loved to stop by and submit her work, even if the Master of Scribes would tell her to do it all over again. He was a crotchety old man, but he had a skilled eye.
