Chapter One

"This is daunting," Rei muttered to herself, scrawling out the latest changes that had been passed to her, hurriedly, by a harassed looking scribe.

She wasn't supposed to be scrawling it, really. It was supposed to be in Script Italica, the latest script that was taught by the Master Scribe of Welles. Script Italica was round and spacious, the Master of Scribes had said. It was stately, elegant, and meant for matters of state. It conveyed cohesion, unity, and above all, royal power.

Rei thought it was unnecessarily snooty.

She sighed. It wasn't her place to judge the the script, or to wonder at the systems of governance. She was here to learn governance, any way that she could.

Her name was Rei, and she was the daughter of the King of Han.

What was a princess doing as a scribe for a third-rate country?

It was something that Rei asked herself everyday, as she buried her head in books, parchments, and ink, copying proclamations furiously for the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which included your standard fare of announcements--weddings, deaths, taxes, newly instated laws, and whatever else the commonfolk of Welles needed to know, as deemed by the royal family and its ministers.

There wasn't much that happened in Welles, and they had far too high an opinion of themselves with all these carefully worded and quilled proclamations, Rei thought. For a thousand years, Welles had been a kingdom of peace, green fields, agriculture, and light trade with its neighbors and across the Eastern sea. They were mostly a backwater country, with little means to build the cityscapes that she loved in Han, and their attention to detail regarding the representation of the royal word was, to Rei, too much effort for too little effect.

But it wasn't her place to judge the way that things were done in this world. She understood, by the age of 14, that it was what it was. "It is what it is," her father, the King, had been fond of saying, ruffling the top of her head every time she had demanded to inherit the throne. She had an older brother, the Crown Prince, but he had always been more interested in dallying with music than with matters of State, and two older sisters who were far more refined than she was. Rei would never inherit the throne, but she liked to take action and make decisions, which she made abundantly clear to her family at a young age. Her older sisters and brother had smiled down at her, ruffling her head in the same way that her father had. She had always wondered why they would say nothing, but she learned, soon, that they were waiting for her to come of age.

With the kingdom of Han, there were only two ways for a third-in-line princess to help her country.

One, marry.

Two, study to become a diplomat.

Marriage was preferred, of course, because the presence of a living heir would inextricably tie two kingdoms together, for better or worse. 

But it wasn't that marriage was a surefire method to bind two kingdoms together. The timing had to be right. The kingdom had to be right. There were only so many kingdoms that mattered to Han, anyway. Han--glorious Han, a country with sun and moon and lands from sea to sea--was a country that did not care too seriously about the other kingdoms, for it was the largest of all the kingdoms, and the oldest of them all. Rei thought wistfully of the rolling hills, the red sands, the sprawling cities and the taller and taller towers that they would call star-reachers. Centuries of inventions and innovations; centuries of exploration and asserting their presence on the lands.

So she had refused to marry, and chosen to study. Diplomacy, however, was considered a softer touch, with a softer effect. A third-in-line princess could become a foreign ambassador. She would be untouchable, and generally respected. Still, how much power would she really have, as but a mouthpiece of her King, her father? She understood her lot in life as a third-in-line princess: little power, little influence, except by that which she could manipulate into being.

Theoretically, there was not much she could do without power. All she could do was learn, and keep her eyes and ears open on ways to serve her country best.

Still, she never thought it would be like this.

Rei wrinkled her nose as she considered her ink-stained sleeve, her spotted nose, the soot that seemed to float in every corner of this dark and damp room that they called a library. This was Welles, a country north of Han, whose only advantage in the arena of world diplomacy was that they had nothing noteworthy to call their own, except a few herbs and spices and a culture of reading and writing. They had only appeared on the world stage five hundred years ago, when they established themselves in blood and warfare, to claim a swath of land as their own. Barbarians from the North, coming south to conquer others and throw a name onto the land. It was typical in the history of humankind, but it did not make it any more palatable, thought Rei. The dark ages of conquest were long over in Han, tens of thousands of years ago.

After the dust had settled, the royal family of Welles had become meek as a mouse. The history of it all was fading, but the story went that the royal invaders had seen enough bloodshed, threw down their weapons, and made peace with its peoples. They began to educate the realm in Wellesiane, the language of the conquerors. "Words are power," were the Wellesian words. The people began to till the lands, returning to their harvests, and learning their words. there was no more to do than to till the land and carry on the peace of the realm.

When you are unremarkable, no one bothers you, she thought. That is how she felt.

Rei Li, daughter of kings--here, she was Rei No-Name, an orphan in a little town of Welles called Sorrowfields.

No one knew who she truly was, and it irked her, as she bowed to the senior scribes and copied line after insignificant line in the ledgers of Wellesian accounts. She had been sent here incognito to learn, because she had refused to marry, even as her Father the King had proposed it the better path to take.

Rei thought back, with but an inkling of pain in her heart, to the night that she bade her homeland farewell. It was an autumn night, with the full moon spilling through the floor-length windows of their castle in the cold of the high mountains. Her father the King stood before her as she bowed deeply at the waist.

"Rei," her Father had said. "There is a way forward, through marriage, with the Crown Prince of Welles, if you wish. They are of little wealth and little fame, but at least they have little notoriety amongst the kingdoms of this continent."

"It's boring," she had said, "and I refuse."

"You are but a third daughter," he had gently chided. "You would do better to receive the advice of your elders, with respect to matters of state."

Rei had looked up, rebellion in her eyes. "I am a third daughter, and I will do well by Han," she had said. "Send me to learn, and send me to make a difference, and not by the route of false love."

Her father had nodded, and that had been that.

Sometimes, Rei wondered if her father knew that this work would be demeaning, difficult, and harrowsome--and if this work had been meant to beat out the rebellion in her. "Do not take over the world," she could hear him saying, "If you do not know how to take over your corner of the world."

She wanted to stick out her tongue at him, but he was the King, and she knew piety to her father and King.

"Rei! What are you DOING? Hurry up!"

She looked up. The Senior Scribe, Alexander, was looking at her with anxiety.

"Ugh, sorry," she said, "I get lost, sometimes."

"The king needs this today. It's a proclamation meant for the people of Welles."

"Hear ye, hear ye, today shall mark the Hundredth Year of Welles, and we shall continue being completely unremarkable until the ages of eternity, for that is our strength. Be average, be still, be quiet, and live," Rei said out loud, waving her quill like a wand.

"You have no patriotism," Alexander whispered. "Show some respect." He paused, looking at her. "You are adopted, certainly, but... some words should not be said."

Rei looked at herself. Hands that were more golden than Alexander's pale, milky ones, even though they had not been sun-kissed in the year that she had been apprenticing as a scribe, huddled in the dark of the library. Alexander, who had bright green eyes and fiery red hair, looked nothing like herself. Rei--like the people of Han--had black hair, with only a hint of reddish-brown, and hardened eyes of mahogany.

Rei leaned over to pat Alexander's shoulder, a hint of remorse in the gentleness of her eyes. Half-feigned, but half-serious, she told herself. "I'm sorry, Alex. But you know how it is," she said. "Sometimes it is difficult to stand strong, when everything in the world is happening."

Alexander nodded. He knew what she meant by everything, which meant whispers in the corners of the world.

There was no more war anymore, at least, not amongst countries like Han, Welles, or Sidania, to the north. They lived in a peaceful enclave--a civilized union of kingdoms who had agreed to put down their arms and devote their resources to keeping the peace. Their wars had been fought and blood spilled, centuries ago, because that was what their ancestors had done back in the day, before it was understood that human life was sacred and that there was nothing worse than destroying it. Those had been the dark ages, but what was done had to be done, to learn what was right and wrong.

Those were centuries ago, but murmurs of unrest now rose from the corners of the known world. Now there were whispers: entire towns, drinking an elixir to end their lives, led by a false prophet who promised them Eternity in death. Young men throwing themselves into crowds--markets, celebrations--carrying knives, proclaiming that someone or another was the enemy. Sometimes it was the Han, sometimes it was the Faithful of the Ancient Welles, and sometimes it was the Starfolk of Ellorian descent. It could be anyone.

"Death is the Enemy," Rei intoned.

"Death is the Enemy," Alexander saluted, raising both hands, palms facing inward, arms crossed, the sign to shield from Death.

Rei, solemn for a moment, burst out into a question, as she was wont to do. "But what is this proclamation even saying? Why are there so many revisions? We had just written one this morning, and now we have expedited changes? Why couldn't they figure it out before hand?"

"Read the changes yourself," Alexander said in a huff, shuffling his papers and jabbing his quill as if to prove a point. "You can figure it out."

"Alex," she said, deadpan. "You don't seem to understand. We have to make five hundred copies of this same, stupid, three-line text, in perfect calligraphic script, to get it past the Master of Scribes. By dawn."

Alexander waved a hand, bending to his own work.

Rei sighed. She bent over, shoulders hunched, squinting at the parchment. It would help if the library had windows, but Welles had little money, and there was not much for the library, let alone the scribes.

"It's an announcement," she said. "Of the Hundredth Year celebration. There will be food, drink, merriment, entertainment, and... all subjects are required to attend."

"And?"

"Before, they didn't require everyone to attend. They only requested."

"And?"

"Well, I suppose that's a little bit weird, given that Welles is a peaceful country in which nothing ever happens and no one ever asks any questions. All they do is fish and sleep on the sands of the beaches."

Alexander laughed. "You will not understand us, ever, I think."

"What I don't understand is how you all are so pale and still insist on going to the beaches," she muttered.

"Our ancestors were folk from the North," Alexander said, shrugging. "A hundred years ago, we invaded and killed most of the natives of Welles. Now they are weavers, blacksmiths, cooks, servants, and that sort of occupation."

"Ah, yes," Rei said. "Your bloody history."

"Ours," he said, raising his eyebrow.

"I am Rei Astair, daughter of some woman of Han who no longer wanted me, put me on a boat, and shipped me to a dark-skinned weaver of Welles," she said, hating and loving the lie that she repeated, with both muscle memory and delight in the performance. She injected some sorrow, some sarcasm.

"A dark-skinned Wellesian is yet, a Wellesian. You might think that an adopted girl, with nothing of her own, would be indebted and grateful to be able to pick up good work in the royal family."

"Yes," Rei said, "I suppose I should be grateful. Anyone can apply to be a scribe here." She paused, staring at her ink-stained hands. "Don't you think that's weird? A sooty, smudged nobody like me, here in this castle. I could break into your vaults and steal all your treasures."

Alexander looked at her, softly. "You, I, you, I. You keep saying that."

Rei looked up. Alexander's voice, typically frail and anxious and scared, had strengthened, a breath of air that reminded her of a column of silver.

"I know our bloody history. I know our past. When I walk by the weavers, who wear clothes that are not as fine as those that I wear, my heart grieves and I open my coinpurse for whatever I have." He paused, took a breath. "I know that what we took, a hundred years ago, was not by right. It was a time when we were darker, Barbarians all, unable to learn that the world was more than just You and I."

He looked at her, and said, "Rei, you are home here. Welles is your home. As a Wellesian, I firmly believe that Welles is delighted to have you as a daughter, and I hope you remember that."

Rei was silent.

"Besides, I hope you remember that our guards are quite skilled. I'd like to see you try running into those vaults! You'd never come back out again."

"Your guards must be bored. What practice do you have? You have nothing of worth here."

"Yes, nothing of worth. And yet we must continue to guard ourselves. You never know what will happen."

She agreed. The whispers, that came by dove every morning at dawn--from all corners, all scribes, all countries, across the seas and back--were getting darker and darker.

She shook her head, as to clear the thoughts from her head. "At any rate," Rei said, "I'll have this change done, and you know it."
